# Week 3

## Overview
This week focuses on two things:
1) learning your way around Github to manage your data. We will be reviewing this [Intro to Github](https://tis-lab.github.io/tox-class/lessons/github-intro.html)
2) understanding how to get - and give - credit for contributions 

## Class will be F2F in ALS

## Please bring a dataset of your own, or find a public one of interest to you. 

## In Class

1. Go to the [TISlab Github Organization](https://github.com/tis-lab/) and make a new repository for your work. Name it uniquely! Not working? You may not have accepted the invitation to the organization and the tox-team. 
2. Go to Settings, Collaborators & teams, and add tox-team to your repo with write privledges.
3. Upload your dataset to your new repository. tab-delimited or .csv is preferred. Don't fix any of your own data!
3. Update your onboarding form so as to now include the location of your new repository. 
4. Visit your classmate's repository, view their data, and use the issue tracker to ask questions and make suggestions.

## Assignment

The goal of this assignment is to find errors in data, suggest fixes, and get credit for your contributions.

1. Make at least three corrections or additions to one or more of your classmate's data files. Generate a Pull Request. Remember, you can ask questions using the issue tracker.

2. When you are happy with the dataset that your classmates have helped you to enhance, you will make a versioned release using Zenodo. Go to [Zenodo](https://zenodo.org/account/settings/github/) and follow the directions to make a versioned release of your dataset and get a DOI. Please be conscientious that Zenodo can sometimes take a a day or so to give you a DOI. Don't wait until the last minute! 

3. Login to your ORCID account, and register the DOI. 

4. Post a screen shot of your registered data release in ORCID to Slack and thank your classmates for their contributions. 

NOTE: ALL student repos must have one or more pull requests for the class to receive full credit. Please encourage eachother and help eachother to improve everyone's data.
